Hey,
guys,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to discuss a different type of variables,
and this type of variables is called object variables.
So object variables are a different type of variables.
And the differ from normal variables that we've discussed on the lost couple videos in the
fact that they do not hold values or text,
but the actually hold objects.
And by objects,
I mean a workbook or worksheet or a chart or a ranger.
Some cells.
Okay,
so all these are objects,
and the two main advantages of using object variables is that number one,
they make you type less code,
and number two,
they can make your code run slightly faster,
although the second advantage does not happen often.
But it does happen also when you create object variables and because they hold objects,
then the object variable will possess all the methods and properties off that particular
object that it holds.
So,
for example,
if an object variable holds a range,
then it will have all the methods on properties of a range that we've discussed on previous
videos.
If it holds a worksheet,
then they will have all the methods and properties over a worksheet and so on and so forth
.
So to create an object variable,
you just write dim.
And then let's say I want to create an object variable off the type of a range so it's type
is gonna be a range object.
So I'm gonna write them my range.
That's the name of the object variable as range,
for example.
And now,
after creating the object variable and as we did with normal variables as well,
you need to assign an object to that object variable,
right,
Because that's what we did with normal valuables when we created them.
We assigned values to them.
But now,
instead of assigning values,
we're gonna assign objects to these object variables.
So let's say I want to assign this stable here because my object is a range.
That's the type of it.
I'm going to assign the range of this stabler that I've got here on the left from a one to
C 16 to that range object should to do that.
I'm going to write set.
You gotta right set my reins equals worksheets data the reins a one to C 16.
So I'm actually gonna assign the range a one to C 16 in the worksheet called data to the
object variable that is called my range.
And now I've given it some sort of a nickname.
So now I can actually refer to that range as my range instead of referring to it as
worksheets state at that range a one to C six or even range a one to C six if I've got the
worksheet data selected.
So this actually makes it easier for me to do stuff with that range,
right?
Because they can just write my range dot And then Excel has recognized that this is a range
object and it has the methods and properties of a range object.
So I can write my range dot fund,
for example.
So you can see here is starting to have the methods and properties of a range object dot
color equals V B read,
for example.
So if I run this code,
the the Ranges fund is gonna turn to read,
as you can see here.
So you could see here that using object variables makes me type less code because now I've
given this object a nickname I could just refer to it as my range,
as opposed to referring to it with the worship that it's in and then referring to the range
.
So now you could see that using object variables makes me type less code because I can just
deal with that reigns by just typing my range instead of typing this whole code.
So that makes it easier for me.
There is a type of objects as well.
That is school,
just object.
And this object type is actually just a generic object,
and it can work with any type of objects so it can work if you're trying to set my range
equals two a worksheet or if you're trying to set equal to a range,
so basically whatever variable used with it,
you can assign any type of object to it.
However,
this is rarely used because this normally used when you don't know the type of object,
is going to be assigned to your object variable.
But this rarely happens,
so you will often no,
actually the type of object that you're gonna try to assign to your object variable.
So you normally see people using the my Ranges range or dim my workbook as workbook and so
on and so forth.
Okay,
guys.
So to illustrate the advantage of using object variables further,
I've got here a simple procedure.
And what it's going to do is that it's gonna copy this stable from the data sheet to the
report sheet here.
So if we run this code,
you can see here that the table has been copied.
However,
I can actually reduce the amount of code the I type if I declare some object variables.
So if I dim data as HD as worksheet,
for example,
and then set data sht to be equal to worksheets data and also dim RPT sheet as worksheet
and set RPT sheet to be equal to worksheets report,
I can now replace every instance of worksheets data with just data as HD.
So if I just copy DTs HD here on just Aiken,
just replace that and also every instance of worksheets report with RPT sheet so I can just
do that as well.
And if I run,
the macro is still going to run and do the same thing.
So you can see here.
I've saved myself year.
Sumco Typing on this also can make my code run faster.
And imagine if you've got mawr lines of code that reference the data sheet and report cheat
.
It would be much easier to just refer to them as the days H d and R P t s h d rather than
worksheets,
data and worksheets report.
So this does save you time.
Another thing that I actually faced at work is,
for example,
if I have a worksheet that has a weird name that is hard to memorize,
So it would have ah,
bunch of letters and a bunch of numbers.
So this name is hard to memorize,
so actually it is easier.
And I'm just writing that as a comment so as not to get an error from xlv B A.
You'd right dim X as worksheet,
for example,
and then set X to be equal to worksheets.
This weird name.
So it's easier to do that than have to memorize this kind of name when you type it in your
code over and over again.
So when you do that,
you can just refer to this worksheet with this weird name as just X,
so that is much simpler.
Okay,
so ah,
that's it,
guys,
for object variables.
You're gonna see me.
Use them a lot in our code in the upcoming listens.
Thank you very much watching this video and I'll see on the next one.